Cloud common  concepts closes #133 (#151)
bob-crutchley/notes: topics/cloud/modules/cloud-enabling-technologies/README.md

# Cloud enabling technologies

<!--TOC_START-->
### Contents
- [Overview](#overview)
	- [Fast wide area networks](#fast-wide-area-networks)
	- [Disaster recovery](#disaster-recovery)
	- [Powerful, inexpensive server computers](#powerful-inexpensive-server-computers)
	- [Benefits of virtualization](#benefits-of-virtualization)
	- [Virtualization VS Multi-Tenanting](#virtualization-vs-multitenanting)
	- [Containers](#containers)
	- [Task](#task)

<!--TOC_END-->
## Overview
In this module you will learn what technologies allow cloud services to work.

### Fast wide area networks

> 

Reviewer: Could use a simple explanation at the top here about what a fast wide area network is

In order to get the location-independence of the cloud, you need a fast wide-area network. Otherwise the users and the 
servers all need to be physically close, or connected by a dedicated network.

With a fast, wide-area network, we can support users in many different locations, and we can support high-availability 
and disaster recovery solutions that would previously have been unworkable.

### Disaster recovery

> Disaster recovery is the strategy of backing up and restore that maintains the electronic records of the copies in 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Disaster recovery is the strategy of backing up and having the ability to restore and maintain electronic records in a 
```

`Noisy neighbours` – one guest using all the bandwidth/CPU/etc and the servers all need to be physically close, or 
connected by a dedicated network.

### Virtualization VS Multi-Tenanting

Virtualization is a type of multi-tenanting, in that it allows multiple users to share a single physical resource. It 
does this by separating the users at the hypervisor level.
* Namely, every customer has their own virtual machine, from the OS up

However, when we use the term multi-tenanting, we usually use it to refer to application-level separation of users 
within a single virtual machine.
* The virtual machine is hared by many customers
* Isolation is enforced by the application

Software-as-a-service is frequently multi-tenant, for Cloud services such as Gmail
* `My webmail provider almost certainly uses virtualisation, but when I log on, I
  don’t get a virtual machine all to myself. Instead, the application prevents me
  from seeing other users email`
  
### Containers

Subdivide a single virtual machine, which results in less overhead than creating multiple VMs:
* Does not require hardware support or emulation
* Containers are isolated at the user (as opposed to kernel) level

> Docker is the best-known container technology (docker.com).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Docker is the best-known container technology [docker.com](https://docker.com).
```

Package an application and its dependencies as a unit.
* Run on any Linux server: flexible and portable
* Windows support expected soon
* Integrated into many other cloud products

### Task

**List all the cloud enabling technologies you have learned about in this module**
<details>
<summary>Show Solution</summary>
* Fast wide area networks
* Disaster recovery
* Powerful, inexpensive server computers
* Benefits of virtualization
* Virtualization VS Multi-Tenanting
* Containers
</details>

**Can you implement disaster recovery for on-premises hosting?**
<details>
<summary>Show Solution</summary>
Yes, with appropriate configuration. Additionally security, and infrastructure has to support it.
</details>

**List out the benefits of virtualization**
<details>
<summary>Show Solution</summary>

> * Elasticity/scalability

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<ul>
  <li>Elasticity/scalability</li>
```
Looks like the bullet points aren't coming out right when the drop down is expanded, seems to work when you just do it in HTML like this though.

> * Resource pooling on common infrastructure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <li>Resource pooling on common infrastructure</li>
```

> * More efficient use of physical resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <li>More efficient use of physical resources</li>
```

> * Granularity of monitoring and pricing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <li>Granularity of monitoring and pricing</li>
```

> * No leakage of data from one guest to another

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <li>No leakage of data from one guest to another</li>
</ul>
```
